feat: Add DAU general description (#3653)
vaadin/docs: articles/flow/configuration/licenses/daily-active-users.adoc

= Daily Active Users

Daily Active User (DAU) represents a *human end-user* using one application, that customer builds with Vaadin, during a 24 hours period.
The new *Premium* plan gives access to all Vaadin features, but only for a limited number of DAU.
DAU license model is only supported by Vaadin versions starting from 24.5.
The *Ultimate* plan gives access to all Vaadin features and has no limitations on DAU numbers.

> Ultimate plan is appropriate for customers who don’t want to use DAU tracking, e.g. if their applications are offline and have no access to Vaadin’s server.

Author: done

This article describes the DAU license model and how to customise it for project's specifics.

== How Are End-Users Counted

DAU counting is made per Vaadin application or a group of applications sharing the same Premium subscription.
End-users do not need to log in the application to be counted as DAU, *anonymous* users are counted as well.

> Vaadin uses persistent cookies with expiration time *24 hours* as a main method for end-users counting.

Author: This can be treated as either first or second, depending on point of view, but I agree that it makes sense to emphasise that only number of users matters here, no marketing, advertising or other similar purposes.

End-users, who use the application with two or more different browsers or devices, are counted twice or more by default.
Vaadin provides an API to configure application *user identity* (e.g. use an email of the logged-in user), this ensures the same logged-in end-user to be counted as a single user, no matter from what browser or device an application is used.

See <<{articles}/flow/configuration/licenses/daily-active-users#customizing-user-identity-supplier, User Identity Supplier>> for more information and examples.

An end-user needs to interact with the application to be counted - merely opening the application in a browser and closing it immediately does not count as DAU. The threshold of activity for DAU is *1 minute*.

== Where And How The DAU Information Is Stored

Vaadin doesn't collect or store any end-users personal data.
If an application provides a user identity function, this identity is hashed immediately and published to Vaadin’s license server as a hash value that cannot tell anything about the end-users.
Vaadin license server only stores the hashes generated this way and counts unique number of hashes per day, i.e. DAU number.

> Vaadin application stores these hashes in memory hash and doesn't persist it anywhere, rather than publishing to Vaadin’s license server once a day.

Author: done

Figure 2 - DAU notification about started enforcement

After the limit has been updated after negotiations between Vaadin team and Customer, the grace period and enforcement are deactivated.
After this, a new grace period is started in case of another DAU limit overrun.

Emails for notifications can be added on the "Subscriptions" page of your account at https://vaadin.com/myaccount/subscriptions[vaadin.com] web-site, see <<{articles}/flow/configuration/licenses/daily-active-users#what-is-available-in-my-account-page, What information is available on personal account page>>.

== DAU Is Only Calculated For Production Environments

The DAU license model of Premium subscription only counts the end-users, when the Vaadin application runs in production mode.

Testing environments, such as staging or performance tests environments, may use production mode as well.
Vaadin provides a way to avoid DAU counting for these environments:

- set a unique string name to `vaadin.applicationIdentifier` property for each Vaadin application that runs on test environment;
- add these application names on the "Subscriptions" page at https://vaadin.com/myaccount/subscriptions[vaadin.com] web-site.

> Vaadin uses a hash string by default (if this property in not defined) as application name that is based on project's group and artifact IDs.

Reviewer: nit: Group and artifact are a Maven concept, Gradle has projectName. We can leave the phrase as is, or mention gradle, or find a generic way to define the project identity

Author: yes, specified

To distinguish default and custom application names, it adds also the `app-` prefix.

> Thus, don't use `app-` prefix for your custom application names.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, can be ignored
```suggestion
Thus, it is recommended to not use `app-` prefix for your custom application names.
```

Author: changed

See <<{articles}/flow/configuration/licenses/daily-active-users#what-is-available-in-my-account-page, What information is available on personal account page>> for more information.

== How To Build And Run Applications With Premium

To build Vaadin applications for production with Premium subscription, you need to use the usual server license key, as described in <<{articles}/flow/configuration/licenses#server-license-key, License Validation on a CI/CD or Build Server>> article.

> Then you need to copy the subscription key from the "Licenses" -> "DAU" page of your personal account in https://vaadin.com/myaccount/licenses[vaadin.com] web-site:

Reviewer: "copy" can be confusing. What about "obtain"?

Author: replaced

image::images/subscription-key.png[]

Figure 3 - Subscription Key page

Finally, you *must* configure this subscription key for each application that runs within the Premium subscription.
It can be set in the following ways:

- as a `vaadin.subscriptionKey` system property;
- as a `VAADIN_SUBSCRIPTION_KEY` environment variable;

> - in a file with name `subscriptionKey` in Vaadin home directory;

Reviewer: Maybe give an example of what Vaadin home directory is, e.g `($HOME/.vaadin)`.
Otherwise, one can expect he has to create a `Vaadin` user and put the file for example in `/home/Vaadin`. that would not be correct.

Author: added
